sphinx/source/intro/concepts/basics.rst, before:

*******************************
Your first CherryPy application
*******************************

The standard 'Hello world!' application takes less than 10 lines of code
when written using CherryPy::

    import cherrypy
    
    class HelloWorld:
        def index(self):
            return "Hello world!"
        index.exposed = True
    
    cherrypy.quickstart(HelloWorld())

We assume that you already have :doc:`installed </intro/install>` CherryPy.
Copy the file above and save it locally as ``hello.py``, then start the
application at the command prompt::

    $ python hello.py

Direct your favorite web browser to http://localhost:8080 and you should
see ``Hello world!`` printed there.

How does it work?
-----------------

Let's take a look at ``hello.py``:

 * The ``import cherrypy`` statement imports the main CherryPy module.
   This is all that is required to have CherryPy working. Feel free to
   "import cherrypy" in an interactive session and see what's available!
   ``help(cherrypy)`` is also quite useful.
 * We declare a class named ``HelloWorld``. An instance of this class is the
   object that will be published by CherryPy. It contains a single method,
   named ``index``, which will get called when the root URL for the site is
   requested (for example, ``http://localhost/``). This method returns the
   **contents** of the Web page; in this case, the ``'Hello World!'`` string.
 * The ``index.exposed = True`` is a necessary step to tell CherryPy that the
   ``index()`` method will be **exposed**. Only exposed methods can be called
   to answer a request. This feature allows the user to select which methods
   of an object will be accessible via the Web; non-exposed methods can't be
   accessed.
 * ``cherrypy.quickstart(HelloWorld())`` mounts an instance of the HelloWorld
   class, and starts the embedded webserver. It runs until explicitly
   interrupted, either with ``Ctrl-C`` or via a suitable signal (a simple
   ``kill`` on Unix will do it).

When the application is executed, the CherryPy server is started with the
default configuration. It will listen on ``localhost`` at port ``8080``. These
defaults can be overridden by using a configuration file (more on this later).

Finally, the web server receives the request for the URL
``http://localhost:8080``. It searches for the best method to handle the
request, starting from the ``HelloWorld`` instance. In this particular case,
the root of the site is automatically mapped to the ``index()`` method (similar
to the ``index.html`` that is the standard page for conventional Web servers).
The HelloWorld class defines an ``index()`` method and exposes it. CherryPy
calls ``HelloWorld().index()``, and the result of the call is sent back to
the browser as the contents of the index page for the website. All work is
done automatically; the application programmer only needs to provide the
desired content as the return value of the ``index`` method.

CherryPy structure
==================

Most of the features of CherryPy are available through the :mod:`cherrypy`
module. It contains several members:

 * :class:`cherrypy.engine <cherrypy._cpengine.Engine>` contains the API to
   control the CherryPy engine.
 * :class:`cherrypy.server <cherrypy._cpserver.Server>` contains the API to
   control the HTTP server.
 * :class:`cherrypy.request <cherrypy._cprequest.Request>` contains the all
   the information that comes with the HTTP request, after it is parsed and
   analyzed by CherryPy.
 * :attr:`cherrypy.request.headers <cherrypy._cprequest.Request.headers>`
   contains a mapping with the header options that were sent as part of
   the request.
 * :class:`cherrypy.session <cherrypy.lib.sessions.Session>` is a special
   mapping that is automatically generated and encoded by CherryPy; it can
   be used to store session-data in a persistent cookie. For it to work you
   have to enable the session functionality by setting 'tools.session.on' to
   True in your config. 
 * :class:`cherrypy.response <cherrypy._cprequest.Response>` contains the
   data that is used to build the HTTP response. 
 * :attr:`cherrypy.response.headers <cherrypy._cprequest.Response.headers>`
   contains a mapping with the header options that will be returned by the
   server, before the contents get sent.
 * :attr:`cherrypy.response.body <cherrypy._cprequest.Response.body>` contains
   the actual contents of the webpage that will be sent as a response.

Commit message:

Doc work on cherrypy.process.

sphinx/source/intro/concepts/basics.rst, after:

*******************************
Your first CherryPy application
*******************************

The standard 'Hello world!' application takes less than 10 lines of code
when written using CherryPy::

    import cherrypy
    
    class HelloWorld:
        def index(self):
            return "Hello world!"
        index.exposed = True
    
    cherrypy.quickstart(HelloWorld())

We assume that you already have :doc:`installed </intro/install>` CherryPy.
Copy the file above and save it locally as ``hello.py``, then start the
application at the command prompt::

    $ python hello.py

Direct your favorite web browser to http://localhost:8080 and you should
see ``Hello world!`` printed there.

How does it work?
-----------------

Let's take a look at ``hello.py``:

 * The ``import cherrypy`` statement imports the main CherryPy module.
   This is all that is required to have CherryPy working. Feel free to
   "import cherrypy" in an interactive session and see what's available!
   ``help(cherrypy)`` is also quite useful.
 * We declare a class named ``HelloWorld``. An instance of this class is the
   object that will be published by CherryPy. It contains a single method,
   named ``index``, which will get called when the root URL for the site is
   requested (for example, ``http://localhost/``). This method returns the
   **contents** of the Web page; in this case, the ``'Hello World!'`` string.
   Note that you don't have to subclass any framework-provided classes; in fact,
   you don't even have to use classes at all! But let's start with them for now.
 * The ``index.exposed = True`` is a necessary step to tell CherryPy that the
   ``index()`` method will be **exposed**. Only exposed methods can be called
   to answer a request. This feature allows the user to select which methods
   of an object will be accessible via the Web; non-exposed methods can't be
   accessed.
 * ``cherrypy.quickstart(HelloWorld())`` mounts an instance of the HelloWorld
   class, and starts the embedded webserver. It runs until explicitly
   interrupted, either with ``Ctrl-C`` or via a suitable signal (a simple
   ``kill`` on Unix will do it).

When the application is executed, the CherryPy server is started with the
default configuration. It will listen on ``localhost`` at port ``8080``. These
defaults can be overridden by using a configuration file or dictionary
(more on this later).

Finally, the web server receives the request for the URL
``http://localhost:8080``. It searches for the best method to handle the
request, starting from the ``HelloWorld`` instance. In this particular case,
the root of the site is automatically mapped to the ``index()`` method (similar
to the ``index.html`` that is the standard page for conventional Web servers).
The HelloWorld class defines an ``index()`` method and exposes it. CherryPy
calls ``HelloWorld().index()``, and the result of the call is sent back to
the browser as the contents of the index page for the website. All the
dispatching and HTTP-processing work is
done automatically; the application programmer only needs to provide the
desired content as the return value of the ``index`` method.

CherryPy structure
------------------

Most of the features of CherryPy are available through the :mod:`cherrypy`
module. It contains several members:

 * cherrypy.engine (a :class:`Bus <cherrypy.process.wspbus.Bus>` instance)
   controls process startup, shutdown, and other events, including your own
   Plugins. See :doc:`/intro/concepts/engine`.
 * :class:`cherrypy.server <cherrypy._cpserver.Server>` contains the API to
   control the HTTP server.
 * :class:`cherrypy.request <cherrypy._cprequest.Request>` contains the all
   the information that comes with the HTTP request, after it is parsed and
   analyzed by CherryPy.
 * :attr:`cherrypy.request.headers <cherrypy._cprequest.Request.headers>`
   contains a mapping with the header options that were sent as part of
   the request.
 * :class:`cherrypy.session <cherrypy.lib.sessions.Session>` is a special
   mapping that is automatically generated and encoded by CherryPy; it can
   be used to store session-data in a persistent cookie. For it to work you
   have to enable the session functionality by setting 'tools.session.on' to
   True in your config. 
 * :class:`cherrypy.response <cherrypy._cprequest.Response>` contains the
   data that is used to build the HTTP response. 
 * :attr:`cherrypy.response.headers <cherrypy._cprequest.Response.headers>`
   contains a mapping with the header options that will be returned by the
   server, before the contents get sent.
 * :attr:`cherrypy.response.body <cherrypy._cprequest.Response.body>` contains
   the actual contents of the webpage that will be sent as a response.
